---
layout: blog-layout
title: Sorting Hat Project with Vue.js
---

# {{ page.title }}


This past Friday, we had our second all-day class assessment to build a Sorting Hat using the Vue JavaScript framework!  I was really, really excited about the project. :)

I very quickly got the general design and layout up and running, and the general gist was to generate a random Hogwarts house for the user when they click the Sorting Hat on the page.  I had a bit of a tricky time generating just one house on click, so I wanted to write out what I did for myself for future reference:

On the Sorting Hat image, I used the Vue directive <code>v-on:click="sortMe()"</code> to call the <code>sortMe</code> function.  That function generates a random number between 0-3, each which correspond to one of the four Hogwarts houses that were listed out in a data object as a part of the Vue data.  Generating that number was relatively easy with the code <code>this.index = Math.round(Math.random() * (4 - 1));</code>, and the index then correlates directly to one of the houses in the data object.  Once the index was chosen, I created a Vue component that gives the user a message from the Sorting Hat, including the house name, house crest and short description about it.

The issue that I was having originally was that I was using a <code>v-for</code> directive to list out each house initially as a way to get something pulled in on the page.  This commands Vue to loop through the entire `Houses` data object, and therefore it always printed out all four houses.

My last tip about Vue today is, when in doubt, always use `this.` in front of any computed, method or watch elements.  It seems like you need them more often than not!

If you're curious, you can view my project on Heroku <a href="https://melanie-sorting-hat.herokuapp.com/" target="_blank">here</a>.